**Preface**

It was in the library of the western campus of China Agricultural
University (CAU) that I, a second-year undergraduate, first encountered
*Computational Molecular Evolution* by Ziheng Yang (Yang 2006). In the
past 15 years, I have greatly benefited too much from this book and its
following *Molecular Evolution: A Statistical Approach* (Yang 2014),
both of which make my study of molecular phylogenetics not only much
easier but truly enjoyable. Different from most biology books, Yang 2006
and Yang 2014 offer exceptional exercises, which are wonderful resources
by providing hands-on practice to reinforce the concepts and enhancing
understanding. However, the solutions are notably absent, apparently
limiting people from delving deeper into the field.

In SMBE2023 in Ferrara, Italy, I met Ziheng in person for the first
time. I shared with him a na√Øve but lovely plan to work out every
problem of the books, and received much enthusiastic support and
encouragement. I then invited my mathematician friend Jianhao Lv to join
this work. The way of our collaboration is as follows. I worked out all
problems for the first time, and Jianhao reviewed each of the math-heavy
ones and provided alternative solutions where possible, and then sent it
back to me, and I revised and sent it back to him. The above was
repeated until convergence. Shamelessly, I put my solution always as
"Solution 1" and Jianhao's as alternatives, but readers will find the
alternatives a better way, almost surely.

Keeping in mind that the biggest challenge for biologists to study
molecular evolution is the lack of knowledge in math, this solutions
manual aims at providing readers i) very detailed step-by-step solutions
to each problem ii) code including calculus, linear algebra and
statistics as R as possible iii) alternative solutions where possible.
It is hopeful that most biologists can understand most of the problems,
but my greater aspiration is that after reading they can recollect the
memories of those calculus, linear algebra, and statistics knowledge,
and apply them in research.

Note that by no means are the solutions to be taken as "standard
answers". This might particularly be the case for the present solutions 
manual where the solutions are not given by the author of the original books.
Instead, I wish that the solutions manual can play a tiny role in bridging the divide
between people with various backgrounds to work together on biological
questions. Just like Ziheng, Jianhao, and I, who enrolled in different
programs when studying at CAU---animal sciences, math, and biology---are
brought together by computational molecular evolution. Note that there
is an associated GitHub repository. Readers are welcome to provide
feedback, alternative solutions and error report at GitHub
<https://github.com/sishuowang/Solutions_Manual_CME2006_MESA2014/>
or by e-mail [sishuowang{at}hotmail.ca](mailto:sishuowang@hotmail.ca).
For citation, please refer to the GitHub repository. The solutions
manual is distributed under CC-BY 4.0.

Needless to say, I particularly thank Ziheng for providing so many
interesting problems and for his encouragement. I am also very grateful
for my advisor Margaret Ip for supporting me performing this kind of
"theoretical" work in Faculty of Medicine, CUHK.



WANG, Sishuo

*Prince of Wales Hospital*

*2023*
